Delegation comes before the prompt.
It means setting the goal and deciding whether, where, and how AI should participate.
The first question is not, “What should I ask?
It is, “What part of this work should AI do at all?
Start from the job, not the tool.
Name the decision, artifact, or change you need.
Then ask which parts require your context, taste, authority, or relationship with other people, and which parts are repeatable enough for AI assistance.
Use three routes.
Keep the task human when the value is personal judgment or accountability.
Collaborate when the destination is clear but the route needs frequent choices.
Delegate when the outcome, tools, limits, and evidence can be specified.
Good delegation also defines the outcome boundary.
State what success looks like, what the AI may access, which actions are allowed, when it must stop, and what evidence it must return.
Autonomy without a boundary is just hidden interpretation.
Consider an important email.
AI can draft alternatives or improve clarity, but you may keep the decision, relationship tone, and final send.
For a routine weekly report, the AI may collect data and assemble the artifact while you review exceptions and approve publication.
The common failure is over-delegation.
People transfer work because AI is fast, not because the task is ready.
If the goal is unstable, the consequence is high, or success cannot be checked, stay in collaboration or do the judgment yourself.
First, decide whether AI belongs in the task before writing the prompt.
Second, delegate a bounded outcome, not a vague responsibility.
Third, keep human authority where consequence and judgment live.